This is one of multiple videos discussing static routing.
I've received a number of questions along the lines of multiple default routes supported on Narada in
this apology we have four routers and we are concentrating on Rodda one which has three paths to get
to the loop back over to 5 to get to 2 5.5 to 5.5.
One can go via Rodda 2 or via a rotisserie or via a full
so have a look at this writing table and tell me which way will Rodda one send traffic to the Luebeck
of route of 5.
So let's do a trace.
What you'll notice is that the pings fail and they fail because the gateway of last resort is not configured
and there's no specific Raat to 5.5 at 5 5.
If we use the command debug IP packet we'll be able to see what happens when one pings wrote a five
I'll send a single ping in this example.
And what you'll notice is we told that the packet is unreadable.
The router doesn't know where to forward the packet.
So it simply drops it.
If we want to send traffic to of 5 we need to configure a static ROFFT or configure a routing protocol.
This option is called a default route so we can configure a default route pointing to either a local
interface or to the next hop IP address.
So this option ABC forwarding routers IP address allows us to specify the next hop IP address and we
can also specify a administer of distance for the route.
I'm not going to do that here.
I'm going to press a carriage return.
What this has done is set a default route to route a.
So show IP Raat now shows that we have a gateway of last resort configured of tamed wondered or too
to the default network we can see a static ROFFT So notice the stall asterisk denoting candidate to
default prompt the Rodda has a default route via tendered wonder wonder to notice the administer of
distance of the rodders one the administer of distance or believability of a static route to a next
hop IP address is one.
So that's a lot lower than a writing protocol such as I was P.F. or up as an example has an admin distance
of 120 if you can figure out a static route to the local outgoing interface it would have and it must
of dozens of Zerah.
So now when we paying quadruple five the ping works all turn off that debug and do that again.
So Ping succeeds and if we trace to the loopback it's going via router to 10 1 1 2 and that's because
once again the default route is pointing to router 2.
So can we configure another default route.
So as an example can we configure it to go via router 3 10 1 to 2.
And the answer is yes we can.
If we configure it to default the gateways.
Notice how it shows in the running table we can paying wrote a 5.
And when we trace to ratify if the route is going to load balance across those two paths.
So it's going to load balance with one packet going to 10 1 to 2 and one packet going to 10 1 1 2 and
we can see that in the output here.
Notice the traces are load balanced across rodded 2 and router 3.
And then we see Rodda 5 as the next top depending on which path that traffic took.
So that either goes via the top link or the second link.
So show I P-ROC shows us that again we could add a third route via Rodda for a show IP route notice
we have three entries in the writing table and if we trace to 5.5 to 5.5 traffic is load balanced across
those three static rounds.
So in answer to the question can you have a multiple default routes.
The answer is yes you can.
The ratable load balance across those parts equally.
Now you can change the ministry of distance.
So at the moment if I top do show run piping clewed route will see the three static routes in the running
config of the router and what we could do as an example is remove the Roths from the writing table
and add them back with different admen distances.
So previously the administer of distance was one but we cannot change that before we change it.
Notice to show IP Raat shows us that we no longer have any routes to route a 5.
And if we are paying that back to look back the pings are failing because theres no rot in the rotting
table.
Enjoy this video if it was of benefit to you please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.